Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about an estimation and a proposal strategy that can make it
a lot easier to close sales.
So one strategy here at Sprint cook we found that has dramatically increased our conversion rate in
terms of how many people we have come to us ask us about a project and then we convert them into a paying
client is our ability to give two types of estimates.
Now we're to cover in this course in depth how you can build out proposals and proposals that were recovered
the main type of estimation where you give them one big grand estimate for the entirety of whatever
it is they're asking you to build.
But there's one other skill that is very very worth defining and very much worth developing and that's
a skill to give what we call a ballpark estimate.
So this is the ballpark estimate strategy.
So if someone came to you and said I need this application built it does this in us in this it looks
like this.
And it has these features you would probably give them a full size estimate and you'd probably list
out every single item every single task and you give them a lot of detail.
But there's a lag period in between the time they ask for that and by and then between when you deliver
it to them.
So it could be two days three days it could be we could even be a month if it's a big project and you
are sacked with other work during that time.
There are probably going to be looking at other vendors and other development businesses and they're
obviously going to be biased towards whoever gets back to them first.
So what are the strategies we use.
And this really helped us especially at the very beginning was giving ballpark estimates.
So what we decided to do was when someone describes an idea to us we try to get as much information
as we can if they're missing anything that's OK then what we do is we just come up with a range and
that range could be very wide.
Typically the first number is half of the second number.
That's how big the range is.
But ballpark estimates are helpful for a couple reasons.
1.
A ballpark estimate tells the client whether or not you guys are even communicating in the same space.
Clients thinking this is a thousand dollar project and you're thinking it's a ten thousand dollar project.
A ballpark estimate will answer that for them very quickly.
A lot of times you waste your time building out estimates.
You send it to the person they never respond probably because they didn't think that that was what the
price was going to be they're probably thinking it had one fewer digit.
So to save yourself last time and lost leads you should develop a skill to basically estimate out just
a range that you know it's going to fall.
And another reason why a ballpark estimates is useful is because not a lot of other people do this.
And if you give that to them that basically means that you know while there might be waiting on for
other companies to come back with full estimates they already have information from you.
So they're obviously going to interact with you and you can kind of whittle it down you can give them
explanations for why it's that range.
You can even frame the conversation.
You basically give them an anchor point how to frame this entire discussion.
And you're the one who delivered the information the quickest.
So it's a time saving technique because you can find out very quickly whether or not you're about to
waste a lot of time and a real estimate.
And it really helps because you get ahead of all your competition because you can give them something
very quickly now.
Never come up with a ballpark on the spot.
Always have your contractor or if you're a programmer always you yourself sit down and actually try
to run some theoretical numbers the way you protect yourself is by saying a range that's quite wide.
Now remember you know if I said it's 200 hours to 400 hours you might think that's really really imprecise
but to someone who's looking for any idea of how big their project is that's actually very helpful because
they usually do not know whether or not it's 200 hours or two thousand hours.
They just don't know they have no experience in this industry.
So protect yourself by hedging make sure that you have a wide range and make sure that they understand
that if anything changes from what they describe to you right this second that will affect the range.
That's crucial.
They need to understand that they come back to you later and they've added features added a mobile application
or like a mobile display that they didn't talk about before that they should know that that's going
to increase the price if you don't tell them that they're going to think that you gave them a bad estimate
or that you're being shady in some way.
Now this is something that really kind of has some trial and error.
It takes a while to get used to it and it takes awhile to get good at giving ballpark estimates.
And we've been doing this for four years and we get them wrong still all the time.
But what we found is that if you follow some basic advice big ranges and letting them know that any
changes will affect then we're accurate almost 90 percent of the time.
Remember you don't have to be precise if I said a 200 hour range it just has to fall somewhere in that.
Then when you follow up with a real estimate you know that person has accepted the ballpark range.
They probably have the budget for it and they already have more of a rapport with you than with their
with your competitors.
OK.
Like I said this worked out really really well for us.
That was a big technique that made a big jump in.
We used to be you know we have four leads convert.
One we started doing this and we're starting to convert three out of four leads.
Try it out.
Be aware it's difficult at first it's something that you're going to have to master but once you do
get this done it's very very powerful.
Any questions just post in the group discussion probably can't get into the technical details of making
a ballpark estimate.
That's probably going to fall on the shoulders of the team you put together or whether or not you're
a programmer yourself.
Every application is just completely different.
It also depends on your capabilities and your team's capabilities.
All right so in the next lecture.